City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) The new City-wide Zoning By-law 569-2013 was enacted on May 9, 2013. It has been appealed under section 34(19) of the Planning Act. Even though it is under appeal, the City's Chief Building Official and the Committee of Adjustment will apply the new By-law to applications filed after its enactment. Please consult with your advisors to determine whether the new by-law has any impact. Amendments to By-law 569-2013 have been incorporated into this office consolidation. The original by-law and its amendments are with the City Clerk's office. Zoning By-law No. 569-2013, as amended (office consolidation), is available in PDF format from the Zoning By-law 569-2013 homepage City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) Version Date: July 31, 2024, including City-wide Amendments up to April 30, 2026 Table of Contents Back to Top of Bylaw Chapter 1 Administration 1.5 General 1.20 Interpretation 1.40 Zones and Zone Categories 1.40.10 Residential Zone Category 1.40.15 Residential Apartment Zone Category 1.40.30 Commercial Zone Category 1.40.40 Commercial Residential Zone Category 1.40.50 Commercial Residential Employment Zone Category 1.40.60 Employment Industrial Zone Category 1.40.80 Institutional Zone Category 1.40.90 Open Space Zone Category 1.40.100 Utility and Transportation Zone Category Chapter 2 Compliance with this By-law Chapter 5 Regulations Applying to all Zones Chapter 10 Residential Chapter 15 Residential Apartment Chapter 30 Commercial Chapter 40 Commercial Residential Chapter 50 Commercial Residential Employment Chapter 60 Employment Industrial Chapter 80 Institutional Chapter 90 Open Space Chapter 100 Utility and Transportation Chapter 150 Specific Use Regulations Chapter 200 Parking Space Regulations Chapter 220 Loading Space Regulations Chapter 230 Bicycle Parking Space Regulations Chapter 280 Special Districts - Downtown Chapter 300 Special Districts - Centres Chapter 400 Special Districts - Avenues Chapter 500 Special Districts - Heritage Chapter 600 Regulations for Overlay Zones Chapter 800 Definitions Chapter 900 Site Specific Exceptions Chapter 970 Appendices Chapter 990 Zoning By-law Map Chapter 995 Overlay Maps Chapter 1 Administration 1.40 Zones and Zone Categories 1.40.10 Residential Zone Category (1) Residential Zones The zones in the Residential Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Residential R Residential Detached RD Residential Semi-Detached RS Residential Townhouse RT Residential Multiple RM (2) Purpose of the Residential Zone Category The Residential Zone category permits uses associated primarily with the Neighbourhoods designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes a range of residential building types in different zones. The residential building types identified in the Residential Detached (RD), Residential Semi-Detached (RS) and Residential Townhouse (RT) zones reflect the historical development patterns in an area, however, a range of residential building types are permitted and form the physical context. The zones within this category also include permission for parks, local institutions and small-scale commercial uses. [ By-law: 1509-2025 ] (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Residential Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Residential Zone category is as follows: (A) Residential (R) The purpose of the R zone is to provide areas for a variety of residential building types, including detached houses, semi-detached houses, townhouses, detached houseplexes, semi-detached houseplexes and apartment buildings. (B) Residential Detached (RD) The purpose of the RD zone is to provide areas for a variety of residential building types, including detached houses, detached houseplexes, and, on a lot that abuts a major street, townhouses and apartment buildings. (C) Residential Semi-Detached (RS) The purpose of the RS zone is to provide areas for detached houses, semi-detached houses, detached houseplexes, semi-detached houseplexes, and, on a lot that abuts a major street, townhouses and apartment buildings. (D) Residential Townhouse (RT) The purpose of the RT zone is to provide areas for detached houses, semi-detached houses, townhouses, detached houseplexes, semi-detached houseplexes, and, on a lot that abuts a major street, townhouses and apartment buildings. (E) Residential Multiple (RM) The purpose of the RM zone is to provide areas for detached houses, semi-detached houses, detached houseplexes, semi-detached houseplexes, low-rise apartment buildings, and, on a lot that abuts a major street, townhouses. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] 1.40.15 Residential Apartment Zone Category (1) Residential Apartment Zones The zones in the Residential Apartment Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Residential Apartment RA Residential Apartment Commercial RAC (2) Purpose of the Residential Apartment Zone Category The Residential Apartment Zone category permits uses associated with the Apartment Neighbourhoods designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes apartment buildings, parks, local institutions and small scale retail. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Residential Apartment Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Residential Apartment Zone category is as follows: (A) Residential Apartment (RA) The purpose of the RA zone is to provide areas for apartment buildings. (A) Residential Apartment (RA) The purpose of the RA zone is to provide areas for apartment buildings and townhouses as infill. [ By-law: 414-2024(OLT) ] (B) Residential Apartment Commercial (RAC) The purpose of the RAC zone is to provide areas for apartment buildings with local institutions and small scale retail and townhouses as infill. [ By-law: 647-2025 ] 1.40.30 Commercial Zone Category (1) Commercial Zones The zones in the Commercial Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Commercial Local CL (2) Purpose of the Commercial Zone Category The Commercial Zone category permits parks, recreation uses, commercial uses and institutional uses associated with the Neighbourhoods and Apartment Neighbourhoods designations in the Official Plan. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Commercial Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Commercial Zone category is as follows: (A) Commercial Local (CL) The purpose of the CL zone is to provide areas for small-scale commercial uses to serve the needs of the local residential area. 1.40.40 Commercial Residential Zone Category (1) Commercial Residential Zones The zones in the Commercial Residential Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Commercial Residential CR (2) Purpose of the Commercial Residential Zone Category The Commercial Residential Zone category permits uses associated with the Mixed Use designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes a range of commercial, residential and institutional uses, as well as parks. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Commercial Residential Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Commercial Residential Zone category is as follows: (A) Commercial Residential (CR) The purpose of the CR zone is to provide areas for a broad range of uses, including retail, service commercial, office and residential uses, often in mixed use buildings. The CR zone has development standard sets which set out specific requirements, such as permitted maximum height for a building, required minimum and permitted maximum building setbacks, and angular planes, based on the different physical contexts found in the downtown, "main-streets" and suburban areas. 1.40.50 Commercial Residential Employment Zone Category (1) Commercial Residential Employment Zones The zones in the Commercial Residential Employment Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Commercial Residential Employment CRE (2) Purpose of the Commercial Residential Employment Zone Category The Commercial Residential Employment Zone category permits uses associated with the Regeneration Areas designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes a mix of commercial, residential, light industrial and institutional uses, as well as parks. [ By-law: 1774-2019 ] (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Commercial Residential Employment Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Commercial Residential Employment Zone category is as follows: (A) Commercial Residential Employment (CRE) The purpose of the CRE zone is to provide areas for a range of retail, service commercial, office, residential and limited industrial uses in single and multiple use buildings. 1.40.60 Employment Industrial Zone Category (1) Employment Industrial Zones The zones in the Employment Industrial Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Employment Light Industrial EL Employment Industrial E Employment Heavy Industrial EH Employment Industrial Office EO (2) Purpose of the Employment Industrial Zone Category The Employment Industrial Zone category permits uses associated with the Employment Areas designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes a variety of manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and office uses within different zones. Some zones have permissions for parks, hotels, small scale retail and services serving area businesses. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Employment Industrial Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Employment Industrial Zone category is as follows: (A) Employment Light Industrial (EL) The purpose of the EL zone is to provide areas for light manufacturing, industrial and other employment uses that co-exist in close proximity to sensitive land uses, such as residential and open space. (B) Employment Industrial (E) The purpose of the E zone is to provide areas for general manufacturing, industrial and other employment uses that co-exist in relatively close proximity to other manufacturing and industrial uses without major impacts on each other. (C) Employment Heavy Industrial (EH) The purpose of the EH zone is to provide areas for heavy manufacturing, industrial and other employment uses that may have impacts on adjacent lands. (D) Employment Industrial Office (EO) The purpose of the EO zone is to provide areas for a mix of light manufacturing and office uses that co-exist with each other in a "business park" setting. 1.40.80 Institutional Zone Category (1) Institutional Zones The zones in the Institutional Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Institutional I Institutional Hospital IH Institutional Education IE Institutional School IS Institutional Place of Worship IPW (2) Purpose of the Institutional Zone Category The Institutional Zone category permits uses associated with the Institutional Areas designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes major educational, health, and government uses within different zones. Some zones may have cultural and institutional uses and institutional residences. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Institutional Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Institutional Zone category is as follows: (A) Institutional (I) The purpose of the I zone is to provide areas for a variety of institutional uses. [ By-law: 1092-2021 ] (B) Institutional Hospital (IH) The purpose of the IH zone is to provide areas for hospitals and associated uses. (C) Institutional Education (IE) The purpose of the IE zone is to provide areas for post-secondary schools and associated uses in a campus setting. (D) Institutional School (IS) The purpose of the IS zone is to provide areas for public schools and private schools, and associated uses. (E) Institutional Place of Worship (IPW) The purpose of the IPW zone is to provide areas for places of worship and associated uses. 1.40.90 Open Space Zone Category (1) Open Space Zones The zones in the Open Space Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Open Space O Open Space Natural ON Open Space Recreation OR Open Space Golf Course OG Open Space Marina OM Open Space Cemetery OC (2) Purpose of the Open Space Zone Category The Open Space Zone category permits uses associated with the Parks and Open Space Areas designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes parks, recreational, cultural and educational uses, as well as the conservation of lands. Some zones include permissions for golf courses, marinas and cemeteries, together with limited retail and commercial service uses. (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Open Space Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Open Space Zone category is as follows: (A) Open Space (O) The purpose of the O zone is to provide areas for parks, including gardens and small play areas. (B) Open Space Natural (ON) The purpose of the ON zone is to provide areas for the conservation of lands such as ravines and waterways that are part of the natural system. (C) Open Space Recreation (OR) The purpose of the OR zone is to provide areas for parks, including recreational uses and facilities, such as sports fields, arenas and community centres. (D) Open Space Golf Course (OG) The purpose of the OG zone is to provide areas for golf courses, including clubhouses and associated services, recreational uses and facilities. (E) Open Space Marina (OM) The purpose of the OM zone is to provide areas for marinas, including clubhouses and associated services, recreational uses and facilities. (F) Open Space Cemetery (OC) The purpose of the OC zone is to provide areas for cemeteries, including associated services and facilities. 1.40.100 Utility and Transportation Zone Category (1) Utility and Transportation Zones The zones in the Utility and Transportation Zone category are: ZONE NAME ZONE SYMBOL Utility and Transportation UT (2) Purpose of the Utility and Transportation Zone Category The Utility and Transportation Zone category permits uses associated with the Utility Corridors designation in the Official Plan. This zone category includes public utilities, transportation uses and recreational uses. [ By-law: 1774-2019 ] (3) Purpose of the Zones in the Utility and Transportation Zone Category The purpose of each zone in the Utility and Transportation Zone category is as follows: (A) Utility and Transportation (UT) The purpose of the UT zone is to provide areas for public utilities, transportation uses, horticultural and outdoor recreational uses. [ By-law: 1774-2019 ] &copy;City of Toronto 1998-2026