City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) The new City-wide Zoning By-law 569-2013 was enacted on May 9, 2013. It has been appealed under section 34(19) of the Planning Act. Even though it is under appeal, the City's Chief Building Official and the Committee of Adjustment will apply the new By-law to applications filed after its enactment. Please consult with your advisors to determine whether the new by-law has any impact. Amendments to By-law 569-2013 have been incorporated into this office consolidation. The original by-law and its amendments are with the City Clerk's office. Zoning By-law No. 569-2013, as amended (office consolidation), is available in PDF format from the Zoning By-law 569-2013 homepage City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) Version Date: July 31, 2024, including City-wide Amendments up to April 30, 2026 Table of Contents Back to Top of Bylaw Chapter 1 Administration Chapter 2 Compliance with this By-law Chapter 5 Regulations Applying to all Zones 5.10 General Regulations 5.10.1 General 5.10.1.10 Interpretation 5.10.1.30 Restrictions 5.10.20 Permitted Uses 5.10.20.1 General 5.10.30 Lot Requirements 5.10.30.1 General 5.10.30.20 Lot Frontage 5.10.30.40 Lot Coverage 5.10.40 Principal Building Requirements 5.10.40.1 General 5.10.40.10 Height 5.10.40.40 Floor Area 5.10.40.70 Setbacks 5.10.40.80 Separation 5.10.50 Yards 5.10.50.10 Landscaping 5.10.60 Ancillary Buildings and Structures 5.10.60.1 General 5.10.75 Energy Regulations 5.10.75.1 General 5.10.175 Fence 5.10.175.1 General Chapter 10 Residential Chapter 15 Residential Apartment Chapter 30 Commercial Chapter 40 Commercial Residential Chapter 50 Commercial Residential Employment Chapter 60 Employment Industrial Chapter 80 Institutional Chapter 90 Open Space Chapter 100 Utility and Transportation Chapter 150 Specific Use Regulations Chapter 200 Parking Space Regulations Chapter 220 Loading Space Regulations Chapter 230 Bicycle Parking Space Regulations Chapter 280 Special Districts - Downtown Chapter 300 Special Districts - Centres Chapter 400 Special Districts - Avenues Chapter 500 Special Districts - Heritage Chapter 600 Regulations for Overlay Zones Chapter 800 Definitions Chapter 900 Site Specific Exceptions Chapter 970 Appendices Chapter 990 Zoning By-law Map Chapter 995 Overlay Maps Chapter 5 Regulations Applying to all Zones 5.10 General Regulations 5.10.1 General 5.10.1.10 Interpretation (1) Application of Chapter The regulations in Chapter 5, "Regulations Applying to All Zones", apply to all lands, uses, buildings and structures. (2) Multiple Uses On a Lot If a lot is used for more than one permitted use, the regulations which apply to each permitted use on the lot are applied as if each permitted use exists and operates independently of the other. (3) Specific Uses If the zone regulation identifies a use as being a permitted use with conditions, and the condition requires compliance with the specific use regulations in Chapter 150, the specific use must comply with the regulations for the zone in which it is located and the regulations in Chapter 150. (4) Substantial Demolition A building is not lawfully existing if 50% or more of the main walls of the first storey, or above, are removed or replaced. 5.10.1.30 Restrictions (1) Use of Unzoned lands Lands that are on the Zoning By-law Map as lands to which this By-law applies, but are not identified on the Zoning By-law Map as being in a zone, may only be used for open space and may not have a building or structure. (2) Habitation in a Vehicle A vehicle may not be used for living accommodation. (3) Dwelling Unit Below Grade A dwelling unit may not be entirely below: (A) established grade in the Residential Zone category and Residential Apartment Zone category; and (B) average grade in any other zone that permits a dwelling unit. 5.10.20 Permitted Uses 5.10.20.1 General (1) City Services The following are permitted in any zone, if owned or operated by or for, or under the authority of, the City of Toronto or any agency of the City of Toronto: (A) facilities for public or emergency services, other than municipal shelters; (B) Municipally owned public parking; and (C) on-location filming. (2) Ancillary Uses Uses that are ancillary to a permitted use on the same lot, are permitted if they comply with the regulations of the zone in which the lot is located. 5.10.30 Lot Requirements 5.10.30.1 General (1) Availability of Services No land may be used and no building or structure may be erected or used on the land unless: (A) the land abuts an existing street, or is connected to an existing street by a street or streets, constructed to a minimum base curb and base asphalt or concrete; and (B) all Municipal water mains and Municipal sewers, and their appurtenances, are installed to a lot line of the property and are operational. (2) Fronting on a Street Except for a Parcel of Tied Land, a building or structure may not be erected or used, on any lot that does not abut a street. For the purpose of this regulation, a "Parcel of Tied Land" has the meaning given to it in section 24 of Ontario Regulation 49/01 made under the Condominium Act, 1998, S.O. 1998, c.19, as amended. This regulation does not apply to a lot separated from a street by a 0.3 metre reserve where vehicle access to the lot is available from a lane. (3) Lot with Reserve Along Street - No Access If a lot is separated from a street by a 0.3 metre reserve and the lot does not abut another street, the lot line abutting the 0.3 metre reserve is the front lot line for the purpose of establishing lot orientation. This regulation does not deem the lot to abut a street from which it is separated by a 0.3 metre reserve. 5.10.30.20 Lot Frontage (1) Designated Front Lot Line for Corner Lots The lot line or contiguous lot lines separating a corner lot from one street or one street segment may be selected as the front lot line, and despite the definition of front lot line, the lot line or contiguous lot lines separating the corner lot from another street or street segment is not a front lot line. (2) Designated Front Lot Line for Through Lots On a through lot, a lot line abutting a street may be selected as the front lot line if that lot line is not separated from the street by a 0.3 metre reserve. 5.10.30.40 Lot Coverage (1) Ramp or Elevating Device Providing Barrier Free Access A pedestrian access ramp or elevating device providing "barrier-free" access to a building or structure is not included in the calculation of lot coverage. 5.10.40 Principal Building Requirements 5.10.40.1 General (1) Non-Complying Building or Structure Damaged by Acts Beyond Owner's Control If a lawfully existing building or structure does not comply with the building regulations for the zone in which it is located and it has been damaged or destroyed as a result of matters beyond the control of the owner, it may be reconstructed or repaired if there is no increase in the noncompliance. (2) Non-Complying Building or Structure - Restoration to a Safe Condition If a lawfully existing building or structure does not comply with the building regulations for the zone in which it is located and it has been determined to be in an unsafe condition by the City of Toronto, the unsafe portion of the building or structure may be repaired or restored to a safe condition if there is no increase in the noncompliance; and the restoration or repair will not alter the location of any part of the building or structure unless it is authorized by a Section 45 Planning Act minor variance. (3) Location Restriction Below a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank On lands under the jurisdiction of the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority pursuant to the Conservation Authorities Act, R.S.O 1990 c. C.27, as amended, other than in the Open Space Zone category, if the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority determines that a shoreline hazard limit or a stable top-of-bank crosses a lot, no building or structure may be located on the portion of the lot below that shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank, unless it is: (A) an ancillary building or structure on a lot in the Residential Zone category; or (B) for the purpose of conservation works, public utilities, or transportation uses. (4) Lawfully Existing Buildings Not Complying With Location Restriction Below a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank If a lawfully existing building or structure is on a portion of a lot below a shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank, that lawfully existing building or structure is permitted in that location, and regulation 5.10.40.1(3) does not apply to prevent an alteration to that lawfully existing building or structure, or its replacement in the same location, if its lawful height, length or width is not increased. (6) Application of Building Regulations to Heritage Designated Sites On a heritage designated site, any alteration, erection or placing of, or addition or extension to, a building or structure that requires authorization by issuance of a Heritage Permit must be in accordance with the following: (A) (i) the alteration, erection or placing of, or addition or extension to, the building or structure must comply with any requirements governing the bulk, massing, form and location of the building or structure to ensure the conservation of the cultural heritage value of the heritage designated site, as set out in a Heritage Permit; (ii) the building regulations for the zone in which the building or structure is located do not apply to prevent the alteration, erection or placing of, or addition or extension to, the building or structure in compliance with a Heritage Permit as described in (i) above; and (iii) for the purpose of this regulation, "Heritage Permit" has the meaning given to the term "permit" in Section 1 of the Ontario Heritage Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.O.18, as amended. [ By-law: 1260-2024 ] 5.10.40.10 Height (1) Height of Buildings and Structures - Flight Path If a lot is located under a flight path regulated by the Government of Canada, the permitted maximum height of a building or structure is the lower of the maximum height permitted by: (A) this By-law; or (B) the Government of Canada. 5.10.40.40 Floor Area (1) Floor Area Calculation Restriction Below a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank On lands under the jurisdiction of the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority pursuant to the Conservation Authorities Act, R.S.O 1990 c. C.27, as amended, other than in the Open Space Zone category, if the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority determines that a shoreline hazard limit or a stable top-of-bank crosses a lot, the portion of the lot below that shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank is not included in the calculation of the floor space index for that lot. (2) Lawfully Existing Buildings Not Complying With Floor Area Calculation Restriction Below a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank Regulation 5.10.40.40(1) does not apply to prevent the alteration of a lawfully existing building or structure, or its replacement, if the floor space index resulting from those lawfully existing buildings or structures is not increased. 5.10.40.70 Setbacks (1) Compliance with Required Building Setback No part of a building or structure may be in a required minimum building setback. (2) Parts of a Building to which a Required Building Setback Applies Building setback requirements apply only to all parts of a building or structure above ground. [ By-law: OMB PL130592 ] (3) Application of Building Setbacks for a Building Located on More Than One Lot If a building is located on more than one lot, the required minimum building setbacks are measured from the lot lines forming the boundary of the combined lots to the main walls of the building. (4) Minimum Building Setbacks for a Use Not Located Within a Building or Structure A use that is not located inside a building or structure must comply with the required minimum building setbacks for a building on the lot, unless: (A) it is landscaping or a horticultural use; (B) it is a park or an outdoor recreation use; or (C) a regulation of this By-law permits an alternative minimum building setback. (5) Rear Yard Building Setback for Triangular Shaped Lots If a lot fronts on a street and has no rear lot line, the rear yard required minimum building setback is measured as a radius from the point where the side lot lines meet. (6) Setback from the Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank On lands under the jurisdiction of the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority pursuant to the Conservation Authorities Act, R.S.O 1990 c. C.27, as amended, other than in the Open Space Zone category, if the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority determines that a shoreline hazard limit or a stable top-of-bank crosses a lot, a building or structure on that lot must be set back a minimum of 10 metres from that shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank, unless it is: (A) an ancillary building or structure on a lot in the Residential Zone category; or (B) for the purpose of conservation works, public utilities, or transportation uses. (7) Lawfully Existing Buildings Not Complying With Setback from a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank If a lawfully existing building or structure is closer to a shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank than the required minimum building setback, that lawfully existing building or structure is permitted in that location, and regulation 5.10.40.70(6) does not apply to prevent an alteration to that lawfully existing building or structure, or its replacement on the same lot, if the alteration or replacement is no closer to the shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank than the existing building setback at every point along the main walls of the lawfully existing building or structure. 5.10.40.80 Separation (1) Separation Distance from the Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank On lands under the jurisdiction of the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority pursuant to the Conservation Authorities Act, R.S.O 1990 c. C.27, as amended, other than in the Open Space Zone category, a building or structure on a lot may be no closer than 10 metres from a shoreline hazard limit or a stable top-of-bank not on that lot, as determined by the Toronto and Region Conservation Authority, unless it is: (A) an ancillary building or structure on a lot in the Residential Zone category; or (B) for the purpose of conservation works, public utilities, or transportation uses. (2) Lawfully Existing Buildings Not Complying With Separation Distance from a Shoreline Hazard Limit or Stable Top-of-Bank If a lawfully existing building or structure is located closer to a shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank than the separation distance required by this By-law, that lawfully existing building or structure is permitted in that location, and regulation 5.10.40.80(1) does not apply to prevent an alteration to that lawfully existing building or structure, or its replacement on the same lot, if the alteration or replacement is no closer to the shoreline hazard limit or stable top-of-bank than the existing distance at every point along the main walls of the lawfully existing building or structure. 5.10.50 Yards 5.10.50.10 Landscaping (1) Ramp or Elevating Device Providing Barrier Free Access The area covered by an exterior pedestrian access ramp or exterior elevating device that provides "barrier-free" access from the ground to the first floor of the building, is landscaping. 5.10.60 Ancillary Buildings and Structures 5.10.60.1 General (1) Ancillary Buildings and Structures Buildings and structures that are ancillary to a permitted use on the same lot, are permitted if they comply with the regulations of the zone in which the lot is located. (2) Satellite Dish Not Mounted on a Building A satellite dish not mounted on a building, or a structure: (A) may not be in a front yard or a side yard that abuts a street; (B) may be no closer to a side lot line or rear lot line than a distance equal to the greater of: (i) the diameter or largest width of the satellite dish; and (ii) if it is 3.0 metres or more from the building, half the height of the structure; or (iii) if it is less than 3.0 metres from the building, the required minimum building setback; and (C) if on a lot that is adjacent to a lot in the Residential Zone category, the permitted maximum height of the satellite dish is 5.0 metres, measured from the ground at its base to the top of its uppermost element. (3) Satellite Dish on the Roof of a Building If a satellite dish is mounted on the roof of a building, it may be no closer to any main wall than the distance equal to the largest radius of the satellite dish. (4) Satellite Dish on a Building but Not the Roof If a satellite dish is located on a building other than on the roof, it must comply with the required minimum building setbacks. 5.10.75 Energy Regulations 5.10.75.1 General (1) Meaning of Distribution For the purpose of the Clause 5.10.75.1, the term "distribution" means the delivery of energy derived from renewable energy or cogeneration energy, to a distribution network connected to the lot. (2) Relation of By-law to Green Energy Act Despite any of the provisions of this By-law, the regulations in this By-law do not apply to: (A) any "renewable energy undertaking", as defined in the Planning Act, respecting which the Planning Act stipulates that a zoning by-law does not apply; (B) any "renewable energy project", "renewable energy source" or "renewable energy testing project", as defined in the Green Energy Act, 2009, S.O. 2009, Chapter 12 Schedule A, as amended, which is designated by regulation under the Green Energy Act and for which the Green Energy Act stipulates that restrictions established by a Municipal by-law are inoperative; and (C) any goods, services and technologies designated by regulation under the Green Energy Act, 2009, S.O. 2009, Chapter 12 Schedule A, as amended, and for which the Green Energy Act stipulates that restrictions established by a Municipal by-law are inoperative. (3) Distribution of Energy From Renewable Energy and Cogeneration Energy Sources The distribution of energy derived from renewable energy sources and cogeneration energy sources, using wires or pipes is permitted in all zones of this By-law if: (A) the distribution of the renewable energy and cogeneration energy produced complies with all Municipal, Provincial and Federal, by-laws, statutes and regulations; and (B) the distribution of renewable energy and cogeneration energy is carried out in compliance with all other regulations of this By-law. 5.10.175 Fence 5.10.175.1 General (1) Fences A fence required by this By-law must comply with the regulations of Chapter 447, Fences, of the City of Toronto Municipal Code, as amended, and any other Code or by-law provision pertaining to fences. (2) Fences - Exemption from Building Setback Requirements A fence is not required to comply with the required minimum building setbacks. &copy;City of Toronto 1998-2026