City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) The new City-wide Zoning By-law 569-2013 was enacted on May 9, 2013. It has been appealed under section 34(19) of the Planning Act. Even though it is under appeal, the City's Chief Building Official and the Committee of Adjustment will apply the new By-law to applications filed after its enactment. Please consult with your advisors to determine whether the new by-law has any impact. Amendments to By-law 569-2013 have been incorporated into this office consolidation. The original by-law and its amendments are with the City Clerk's office. Zoning By-law No. 569-2013, as amended (office consolidation), is available in PDF format from the Zoning By-law 569-2013 homepage City of Toronto Zoning By-law 569-2013, as amended (Office Consolidation) Version Date: July 31, 2024, including City-wide Amendments up to April 30, 2026 Table of Contents Back to Top of Bylaw Chapter 1 Administration Chapter 2 Compliance with this By-law Chapter 5 Regulations Applying to all Zones Chapter 10 Residential Chapter 15 Residential Apartment Chapter 30 Commercial Chapter 40 Commercial Residential Chapter 50 Commercial Residential Employment Chapter 60 Employment Industrial Chapter 80 Institutional Chapter 90 Open Space Chapter 100 Utility and Transportation Chapter 150 Specific Use Regulations Chapter 200 Parking Space Regulations Chapter 220 Loading Space Regulations Chapter 230 Bicycle Parking Space Regulations Chapter 280 Special Districts - Downtown Chapter 300 Special Districts - Centres Chapter 400 Special Districts - Avenues Chapter 500 Special Districts - Heritage Chapter 600 Regulations for Overlay Zones Chapter 800 Definitions 800.50 Defined Terms Chapter 900 Site Specific Exceptions Chapter 970 Appendices Chapter 990 Zoning By-law Map Chapter 995 Overlay Maps Chapter 800 Definitions 800.50 Defined Terms (5) Adult Entertainment means premises used for entertainment including activities, facilities, performances, exhibitions, viewings or encounters designed to appeal to erotic or sexual appetites or inclinations which a principal feature or characteristic is the nudity or partial nudity of any person. A body rub service is not an adult entertainment. (10) Agricultural Use means the use of premises for growing and harvesting plants or raising animals, fowl, fish or insects. (15) Amenity Space means indoor or outdoor space on a lot that is communal and available for use by the occupants of a building on the lot for recreational or social activities. (20) Amusement Arcade means premises for entertainment with amusement devices, such as arcade games. An eating establishment, an entertainment place of assembly, or recreation use is not an amusement arcade. [ By-law: 1329-2023 ] (25) Amusement Device means a machine or electronic device used for games of skill or chance other than: (A) billiards, (B) bowling, and (C) any gaming or lottery device regulated under Province of Ontario legislation. (30) Ancillary means naturally and normally incidental, subordinate in purpose or floor area, and exclusively devoted to a permitted use, building or structure. (45) Angular Plane means an imaginary flat surface projecting over a lot, at an inclined angle measured up from the horizontal. [ By-law: 1124-2018 ] (50) Animal Shelter means premises used for the keeping, adoption or disposal of stray, abandoned or wild animals. (55) Apartment Building means a building that has five or more dwelling units, with at least one dwelling unit entirely or partially above another, and each dwelling unit has a separate entrance directly from outside or through a common inside area. A building that was originally constructed as a detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse and has one or more secondary suites is not an apartment building. A detached houseplex or two semi-detached houseplexes is not an apartment building. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (60) Art Gallery means premises used for the exhibition, collection or preservation of works of art for public viewing. (65) Artist Studio means premises used for creating art or craft. (70) Automated Banking Machine means a device at which customers can complete self-serve financial transactions. (75) Average Grade means the average elevation of the existing or finished ground surface, whichever is lower, around all sides of a building or structure, measured where the building or structure meets the ground surface, excluding: (A) the part of the ground along any one main wall where there is a permitted vehicle entrance into the building or structure; and (B) parts of the ground along each main wall, up to a cumulative maximum of 25% of the horizontal length of the main wall, where there are pedestrian entrances or window wells. (80) Basement means any part of a building where the elevation of the midpoint between the lowest part of a floor and the bottom of the joists directly above it is lower than the elevation of: (A) established grade in the Residential Zone category and the Residential Apartment Zone category; and (B) in all other zone categories, the average elevation of the ground along the front lot line. [ By-law: 1277-2022(OLT) ] (83) Bedroom means a room in a dwelling unit containing a window or alternative source of natural light, primarily used or designed for use for sleeping. A dwelling room in a multi-tenant house is not a bedroom. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (85) Bed-Sitting Room means a room used as separate living accommodation that: (A) has a private entrance from a hallway inside a building; and (B) may have sanitary facilities but not food preparation facilities. (88) Bicycle Maintenance Facilities means an area for bicycle repairs and maintenance which may include work space, a repair stand and an air pump for inflating bicycle tires. [ By-law: 839-2022 ] (90) Bicycle Parking Space means an area used for parking or storing a bicycle. (92) Body Rub Service means premises used for services involving the kneading, manipulating, rubbing, massaging, touching or stimulating by any means of a person's body for the purposes of appealing to erotic or sexual appetites or inclinations. An adult entertainment, massage therapy, or wellness centre is not a body rub service. (95) Building means a wholly or partially enclosed structure with a roof supported by walls, columns, piers or other structural systems. A vehicle is not a building. (100) Building Depth means the horizontal distance between the front yard setback required on a lot and the portion of the building's rear main wall furthest from the required front yard setback, measured along a line that is perpendicular to the front yard setback line. (105) Building Length means the horizontal distance between the portion of the front main wall of a building on a lot closest to the front lot line, and the portion of the rear main wall of the building closest to the rear lot line, measured along the lot centreline. If the main walls are not intersected by the lot centreline, the measurement is from the point on the lot centreline where a line drawn perpendicular to the lot centreline connects with the main wall. (110) Building Setback means a horizontal distance measured at a right angle from any lot line to the nearest part of the main wall of a building or structure. (115) Cabaret means premises used to provide entertainment such as a dinner theatre or comedy club, where patrons are seated at tables and where food or beverages may be offered for sale. An adult entertainment use, an eating establishment, a nightclub, or an entertainment place of assembly is not a cabaret. (120) Cemetery means premises used for the interment of human remains, which may include one or more of the following: (A) scattering grounds; (B) columbarium; or (C) mausoleum. (125) Club means premises: (A) operated by members of a non-profit organization that maintains formal membership and generally limits attendance at meetings to members; and (B) used for meetings and gatherings for social, cultural, recreational, charitable or community service purposes; and (C) a community centre is not a club. (130) Cogeneration Energy means thermal energy and electrical energy simultaneously produced from the same process. (135) Columbarium means a building or structure used for the interment of cremated human remains. (140) Community Centre means premises operated by or on behalf of a government or non-profit organization providing community activities, such as arts, crafts, recreational, social, charitable and educational activities. A club is not a community centre. (143) Community Street means any street identified as "Community Streets" on the Policy Areas Overlay Map found in Section 995.60. [ By-law: 1507-2025 ] (145) Contractor's Establishment means premises used as the base of operations of a tradesperson or contractor. (150) Corner Lot means a lot situated, (A) at the intersection of two or more streets having an interior angle of intersection of 135 degrees or less, or (B) where one street bends to create an interior angle of 135 degrees or less. (155) Courtyard means any area on a lot that is bounded on two or more sides by one or more buildings on the same lot. (160) Crematorium means a building or structure used to cremate human remains. (165) Crisis Care Shelter means premises, other than a municipal shelter, in which short-term emergency accommodation and associated support services are provided and supervised. (170) Custom Workshop means premises used for producing or making custom-made goods in limited quantities, using techniques that do not involve mass-production. (175) Day Nursery means premises providing temporary care or guidance for more than five children, for a continuous period not exceeding twenty-four hours and is regulated as a home child care agency under the Child Care and Early Years Act, 2014, S.O. 2014, c. 11, Sched. 1. A recreational program operated by or for the City is not a day nursery. [ By-law: 1429-2017 ] (180) Detached House means a building that has one dwelling unit occupying the entire building. (181) Detached Houseplex means a building that has multiple dwelling units, and where: (A) the building has no more than four dwelling units; (B) the building is situated entirely on one lot; (C) the building is not attached to a building on an abutting lot; and (D) at least one dwelling unit is entirely or partially above another. (E) Detached houseplex includes the following types of building: a duplex, triplex or fourplex that complies with (A) to (D) above. (F) A detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse that has one or more secondary suites is not a detached houseplex. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (190) District Heating and Cooling Plant means premises used to generate, for mass distribution, thermal energy to heat or cool. (195) Drive Aisle means a vehicle passageway located within an area used for the parking or storage of 3 or more vehicles. (200) Drive Through Facility means premises used to provide or dispense products or services, through an attendant, or a window or an automated machine, to persons remaining in vehicles that are in a designated stacking aisle. A vehicle washing establishment or a vehicle fuel station is not a drive through facility. (205) Drive-in Eating Establishment means premises where food or beverages are prepared and offered for sale to patrons for consumption while remaining in their vehicles. (210) Driveway means a passageway providing vehicle access between a street or lane and an area used for the parking, loading or storage of a vehicle. (215) Duplex means a building that has two dwelling units, with one dwelling unit entirely or partially above the other. A detached house that has a secondary suite, is not a duplex. A duplex may be a type of detached houseplex or semi-detached houseplex. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (219) Dwelling Room means a room used as living accommodation that is available for rent and that is not self-contained. A dwelling room may contain private sanitary facilities or cooking facilities, but not both. [ By-law: 156-2023 ] (220) Dwelling Unit means living accommodation for a person or persons living together as a single housekeeping unit, in which both food preparation and sanitary facilities are provided for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit. (225) Eating Establishment means premises where food or beverages are prepared and offered for sale to patrons for immediate consumption on the premises while they are seated, and which may include an incidental take-out service. (230) Education Use means the use of premises for education or training, other than: (A) a post-secondary school; (B) a school regulated under the Education Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.E.2, as amended; or (C) a religious education use. (233) Energized Outlet means a connected point in an electrical wiring installation at which current is taken to supply utilization equipment for electric vehicle charging. [ By-law: 89-2022 ] (235) Entertainment Place of Assembly means premises used to provide entertainment and performing arts, such as a theatre, cinema, opera, ballet, concert hall, or live music venue. Food or beverages may be offered for sale. An adult entertainment use, a cabaret, an eating establishment, a place of assembly, or a nightclub is not an entertainment place of assembly. [ By-law: 1329-2023 ] (240) Established Grade means the average elevation of the ground measured at the two points where the projection of the required minimum front yard setback line is 0.01 metres past each side lot line. (245) Financial Institution means premises used to provide financial services to the public, other than exclusively through an automated banking machine. (250) Firearm means a device such as a handgun, rifle, shotgun or any other similar device, used or capable of being used to fire a projectile from a cartridge or shot shell. (255) First Floor means the floor of any part of a building, other than an area used for parking, that is: (A) directly above a basement; and (B) if there is no basement, closest to the elevation of: (i) established grade in the Residential Zone category and the Residential Apartment Zone category; and (ii) in all other zone categories, the average elevation of the ground along the front lot line. [ By-law: 1277-2022(OLT) ] (260) Former General Zoning By-law means: (A) By-law No. 438-86 (being the Zoning By-law of the former City of Toronto), as amended, By-law 291-68 (being the Forest Hill Zoning By-law), as amended, and By-law 278-73 (being the Swansea Zoning By-law), as amended, and their predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable; (B) By-law No. 7625 (being the Zoning By-law of the former City of North York), as amended, and predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable; (C) By-law 1-83 (being the Zoning By-law of the former City of York), as amended, and predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable; (D) Zoning Code of The City of Etobicoke, Canada, V131 (being the Zoning Code of the former City of Etobicoke), as amended, and predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable; (E) Borough Of East York Zoning By-Law No.1916 (Town Of Leaside), as amended, and By-Law No. 6752 (Township Of East York), as amended, (being the Zoning By-laws of the former Borough of East York), and their predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable; (F) The Corporation of the City of Scarborough By-Law Number: 10076 (Agincourt); 12797 (Agincourt North); 8786 (Birchcliff); 9350 (Bendale); 9174 (Birchmount Park); 9396 (Cliffcrest); 12077 (Centennial); 8978 (Clairlea); 9364 (Cliffside); 9508 (Dorset Park); 10048 (Eglinton); 9676 (Guildwood); 10827 (Highland Creek); 9089 (Ionview); 9276 (Kennedy Park); 12466 (L'amoreaux); 14402 (Malvern); 12181 (Malvern West); 842-2004 (Midland-St.Clair); 17677 (Milliken); Morningside Heights; 11883 (Morningside); 9366 (Maryvale); 9812 (Oakridge); 15907 (Rouge); 10010 (Scarborough Village); 16762 (Steeles); 10717 (Sullivan); 12360 (Tam O'Shanter); 25278 (Upper Rouge - Hillside); 950-2005 (Warden Woods); 9511 (Wexford); 10327 (West Hill); 9510 (Woburn); Employment Districts Zoning By-Law Number 24982; Industrial District By-Law Number 12790 Centennial Industrial District); The Corporation Of The Township Of Pickering By-Law Number 1978; By-Law Number 3036 (Highway No. 2 Area in Rouge Community) (being the Zoning By-laws of the former City of Scarborough), all as amended, and their predecessor zoning by-laws as applicable. (265) Fourplex means a building that has four dwelling units, with at least one dwelling unit entirely or partially above another. A detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse that has one or more secondary suites is not a fourplex. A fourplex may be a type of detached houseplex or semi-detached houseplex. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (275) Front Lot Line means the lot line or contiguous lines dividing a lot from a street. (280) Front Wall means any portion of the main wall of a building or structure that faces a front lot line. (285) Front Yard means the area on a lot, (A) between the front lot line and all front main walls of the building, and (B) extending parallel to the front lot line across the full width of the lot from the point where the front main wall of the building meets the building's side main walls closest to the respective side lot lines. (290) Front Yard Setback means a horizontal distance on a lot measured at a right angle from the front lot line to the nearest main wall of a building or structure. (295) Funeral Home means premises used for the care and preparation of human remains, and may include related coordination and provision of rites and ceremonies so that persons may attend and pay their respects. (300) Funeral Visitation Centre means premises established for the purpose of temporarily placing human remains and may include related coordination and provision of rites and ceremonies, so that persons may attend and pay their respects. A funeral visitation centre is not a funeral home and does not include the care and preparation of human remains. (303) Garden Suite means a self-contained living accommodation for a person or persons living together as a separate single housekeeping unit, in which both food preparation and sanitary facilities are provided for the exclusive use of the occupant(s) of the suite and is in an ancillary building not abutting a lane. A laneway suite is not a garden suite. [ By-law: 101-2022 ] (305) Gaming Establishment means premises used for the purpose of wagering on games of chance under Province of Ontario legislation, excluding bingo or other lottery events licensed by the City of Toronto for charitable purposes. (310) Geo-Energy means energy derived from the temperature of the earth that is used to produce thermal energy or converted to produce electrical energy. (315) Green Roof means an extension to a building's roof that allows vegetation to grow in a growing medium and which is designed, constructed and maintained in compliance with the Toronto Green Roof Construction Standard set out in Chapter 492 of the City of Toronto Municipal Code. (320) Gross Floor Area means the sum of the total area of each floor level of a building, above and below the ground, measured from the exterior of the main wall of each floor level. (325) Group Home means premises used to provide supervised living accommodation, licensed or funded under Province of Ontario or Government of Canada legislation, for up to ten persons, exclusive of staff, living together in a single housekeeping unit because they require a supervised group living arrangement. [ By-law: 0550-2014 ] (329) Heritage Designated Site means premises included in the City of Toronto Heritage Register designated as being of cultural heritage value or interest under Part IV, or as part of a Heritage District under Part V, pursuant to the Ontario Heritage Act R.S.O. 1990, as amended. [ By-law: 1260-2024 ] (330) Heritage District means an area identified as being of historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural heritage value or interest, and designated as a Heritage Conservation District pursuant to the Ontario Heritage Act R.S.O. 1990, c.O.18, as amended. (335) Heritage Site means premises included in the City of Toronto Heritage Register, listed or designated as being of cultural heritage value or interest pursuant to the Ontario Heritage Act R.S.O. 1990, as amended. [ By-law: 1260-2024 ] (345) Home Occupation means a business use within a dwelling unit, living accommodation or ancillary building or structure, where the dwelling unit or living accommodation is the principal residence of the business operator. [ By-law: 1508-2025 ] (350) Hospice Care Home means premises used to provide palliative care. (355) Hospital means premises used as a private or public hospital under the Province of Ontario Public Hospitals Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. P.40, as amended or Private Hospitals Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. P.24, as amended, for the care or treatment of: (A) persons afflicted with or suffering from sickness, disease or injury; (B) convalescent or chronically ill persons; (C) persons suffering from substance addictions; or (D) persons suffering from emotional, psychological or mental disorders. (360) Hotel means premises used to cater to the needs of the travelling public by providing sleeping accommodation in rooms or suites, and it may include an eating establishment that is ancillary to the hotel. (365) Industrial Gas Manufacturing means premises used for primary processing of propane, hydrogen, ammonia, chlorine, or other toxic gas. (370) Industrial Sales and Service Use means the use of premises for the lease, rental, sale, servicing or repair of equipment or goods for businesses only. Industrial sales and service use does not include the lease, rental, sale, servicing, customizing or repair of vehicles, other than those used for construction or agriculture. (375) Interior Floor Area means the floor area of any part of a building, measured to: (A) the interior side of a main wall; (B) the centreline of an interior wall; or (C) a line delineating the part being measured. (380) Kennel means premises used for boarding, training or breeding of dogs, cats or other domestic animals. (390) Laboratory means premises used for scientific or technical research, analysis, experimentation or development. (395) Landscaping means an area used for trees, plants, decorative stonework, retaining walls, walkways, or other landscape or architectural elements. Driveways and areas for loading, parking or storing of vehicles are not landscaping. (400) Lane means a public right-of-way that is not for general traffic circulation. (402) Laneway Suite means a self-contained living accommodation for a person or persons living together as a separate single housekeeping unit, in which both food preparation and sanitary facilities are provided for the exclusive use of the occupants of the suite and is in an ancillary building abutting a lane. A garden suite is not a laneway suite. [ By-law: 101-2022 ] (405) Lawful and Lawfully means: (A) authorized or permitted before a zoning or restrictive by-law applied; (B) in compliance with the provisions of the applicable former general zoning by-law; or (C) authorized pursuant to a Section 45 Planning Act minor variance. (410) Lawfully Existing Means: (A) existing lawfully on May 9, 2013; (B) for which a building permit was lawfully issued before May 9, 2013; or (C) for which a building permit was lawfully issued within five years of May 9, 2013 pursuant to Article 2.1.3, Transition Clauses. [ By-law: 801-2020 ] (413) Level 2 Charging means a Level 2 electric vehicle charging level as defined by SAE International's J1772 standard, as amended. [ By-law: 89-2022 ] (415) Loading Space means an area used for the loading or unloading of goods or commodities from a vehicle. (420) Lot means a single parcel or tract of land that may be conveyed in compliance with the provisions of the Planning Act. (425) Lot Area means the horizontal area within all the lot lines of a lot. (430) Lot Centreline means a straight line joining the midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line. (435) Lot Coverage means the portion of the lot that is covered by any part of any building or structure on or above the surface of the lot. (440) Lot Depth means the horizontal distance between the front lot line and rear lot line of a lot, measured along the lot centreline. [ By-law: 1124-2018 ] (445) Lot Frontage means the horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot, or the projection of the side lot lines, measured along a straight line drawn perpendicular to the lot centreline at the required minimum front yard setback. (450) Lot Line means any boundary of a lot. (455) Main Wall means any exterior wall of a building or structure, including all structural members essential to the support of a roof over a fully or partly enclosed area. (457) Major Street means any street identified as "Major Streets" on the Policy Areas Overlay Map found in Section 995.10. For the purpose of this definition, the phrase "major street on the Policy Area Overlay Map" has the same meaning as major street. [ By-law: 1062-2025(OLT); 608-2024 ] (460) Manufacturing Use means the use of premises for fabricating, processing, assembling, packaging, producing or making goods or commodities, and it includes repair of such goods or commodities. (463) Marihuana Production Facility means premises used for growing, producing, testing, destroying, storing, or distribution of marihuana or cannabis, or products containing marihuana or cannabis, authorized by a licence issued under Government of Canada legislation. [ By-law: 1124-2018 ] (465) Market Garden means premises used for growing and harvesting vegetables, fruits, flowers, shrubs, trees or other horticultural products for the purpose of sale. (467) Massage Therapy means premises providing massage therapy by persons who are medical or health professionals licensed or registered under Province of Ontario legislation. A body rub service or wellness centre is not a massage therapy. (470) Mausoleum means a building or structure, other than a columbarium, used for the interment of human remains. (473) Medical Marihuana Production Facility means premises used for growing, producing, testing, destroying, storing, or distribution of medical marihuana or cannabis authorized by a license issued by the federal Minister of Health, pursuant to section 12 of the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations, SOR/2013-119, under the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act, S.C. 1996, c. 19, as amended. [ By-law: 0403-2014 ] (475) Mixed Use Building means a building with a dwelling unit and a non-residential use. A residential building is not a mixed use building. (478) Multi-tenant House means premises with four or more dwelling rooms that may have shared common facilities for sanitary and cooking. A group home, residential care home, nursing home, retirement home, seniors community house, religious residence, student residence, tourist home, or hotel is not a multi-tenant house. [ By-law: 58-2026 ] (480) Municipal Shelter means premises in which short-term emergency accommodation and associated support services are provided and supervised, and is operated by or for the City of Toronto, or an agency of the City of Toronto. (485) Museum means premises used for the exhibition, collection or preservation of objects of cultural, historical or scientific interest for public viewing. (490) Nightclub means premises used to provide amplified music for patron entertainment and dancing, such as a dance hall, dance club, or disco, and where food and beverages may be served. A cabaret, an eating establishment, an entertainment place of assembly, a place of assembly, or an adult entertainment use is not a nightclub. [ By-law: 1329-2023 ] (495) Non-Profit Organization means: (A) a corporation without share capital to which the provisions of Part III of the Corporations Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.C.38, as amended, apply; or (B) a non-profit organization, a charitable organization or a registered charity, as those terms are defined in the Income Tax Act, R.S.C. 1985, Chapter 1 (5th Supp.), as amended. (500) Non-Residential Building means a building that does not have a dwelling unit. (505) Nursing Home means premises used to provide living accommodation and regular nursing care for persons of any age and which has personal and medical care facilities, common lounges and dining areas. (510) Obnoxious Use means the use of premises in a manner that is offensive through the creation or transmission of noise, vibration, illumination, emissions, fumes, odour, dust or radiation, or any combination of these, beyond any lot lines of the premises. (515) Off-site Parking means one or more parking spaces on one lot providing required parking spaces for a use on another lot. (520) Open Storage means the use of premises for keeping or storing goods, commodities, containers or equipment other than in a wholly enclosed building. Public parking, or the parking or storing of vehicles in a vehicle depot or in a parking space, is not open storage. [ By-law: 89-2022 ] (525) Outdoor Patio means an outdoor patron area that is ancillary to a non-residential use. (526) Oversized Bicycle Parking Space means a horizontal bicycle parking space that is used for an extra-large bicycle or a bicycle with attachments. [ By-law: 223-2025 ] (530) Park means premises used for conservation, horticulture, or municipally operated public recreation. (535) Parking Garage means a building or portion thereof, with one or more parking spaces. (540) Parking Space means an area used for the parking or storing of a vehicle. (545) Passenger Terminal means premises used for the boarding or discharge of people being transported. (550) Performing Arts Studio means premises used for the rehearsal of performing arts, such as music, dance or theatre. (555) Personal Service Shop means premises used to provide personal grooming services or for the cleaning or care of apparel. (560) Pesticide or Fertilizer Manufacturing means premises used for manufacturing agricultural chemicals, including nitrogenous and phosphoric fertilizer materials, mixed fertilizers, and agricultural and household pest control chemicals. (565) Pet Services means premises used to provide for the grooming of domestic animals. A veterinary hospital or a kennel are not pet services. (570) Petrochemical Manufacturing means premises used for primary processing of refined petroleum and natural gas into petrochemicals for secondary processing. (575) Place of Assembly means premises used for social, cultural, educational or trade events, such as a banquet hall, convention or trade centre, or a hall used for bingo or other lottery events licensed by the City of Toronto for charitable purposes. A cabaret, an eating establishment, an entertainment place of assembly, or a nightclub is not a place of assembly. [ By-law: 1329-2023 ] (580) Place of Worship means premises used by a religious organization for religious worship, services, ceremonies or rites, which may also be used for the advancement of its charitable purposes. (585) Post-Secondary School means premises used for educational purposes by a degree granting college or university under Province of Ontario legislation. (590) Power Generation Use means the use of premises for the production of energy for mass distribution. (595) Premises means the whole or part of lands, buildings or structures, or any combination of these. (600) Primary Window means a window in a dwelling unit other than a window of a bedroom, kitchen, bathroom, hallway, or storage area. [ By-law: 1062-2025(OLT); 608-2024 ] (605) Private Home Daycare means premises used for the temporary care of children and such care is provided in a dwelling unit, other than the dwelling unit of a parent or guardian of any such child, for a continuous period not exceeding twenty-four hours and may have a maximum of: (A) six children, if the Private Home Daycare (home child care) is under an agreement to a home child care agency as regulated under the Child Care and Early Years Act, 2014, S.O. 2014, c. 11, Sched. 1; and (B) five children, if the Private Home Daycare (home child care) is not under an agreement to a home child care agency as regulated under the Child Care and Early Years Act, 2014, S.O. 2014, c. 11, Sched. 1 [ By-law: 1429-2017 ] (610) Private School means premises used for elementary or secondary education regulated under the Education Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. E.2, as amended, but not publicly funded under the Act. (615) Production Studio means premises used for producing live broadcasts, motion pictures, or audio or video recordings or transmissions. The mass reproduction of film or recordings is not a production studio. (620) Public Parking means premises having an area for the parking of one or more vehicles as a principal use and the parking of a vehicle is available for public use with or without a fee. [ By-law: 1675-2013 ] (625) Public School means premises used for elementary or secondary education regulated and funded under the Education Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. E.2, as amended. (630) Public Utility means premises or facilities used for telecommunications, the transmission and distribution of electricity, the distribution of gas, steam or other forms of energy, or the collection, distribution, storage or treatment of water or sewage. (635) Public Works Yard means premises operated by, or on behalf of, the City of Toronto, Province of Ontario or Government of Canada, for the storage, manufacture, maintenance or repair of buildings, infrastructure, materials or equipment. A public works yard may include uses such as a machine shop, paint shop, sign shop, woodworking shop, repair garage or storage facility used in connection with public works such as transportation uses and parks. [ By-law: 1124-2018 ] (640) Quarry means premises regulated under Province of Ontario legislation used for any excavation or extraction of consolidated or unconsolidated aggregates, such as clay, marl, sand, gravel, limestone, slate or granite. (645) Rear Lot Line means, in the case of: (A) a square or rectangular lot, the lot line opposite the front lot line; (B) a three-sided lot, the point where two lot lines meet furthest from the front lot line; or (C) any other type of lot, the furthest lot line opposite the front lot line, including any contiguous line adjoining it at an angle of less than 45 degrees. (650) Rear Yard means the area on a lot, (A) between the rear lot line and all rear main walls of the building, and (B) extending parallel to the rear lot line across the full width of the lot from the point where the rear main wall of the building meets the building's side main walls closest to the respective side lot lines. (655) Rear Yard Setback means a horizontal distance on a lot measured at a right angle from the rear lot line to the nearest main wall of a building or structure. (660) Recovery Facility means premises used for separating or sorting recyclable material. A salvage yard is not a recovery facility. (665) Recreation Use means premises used for sports, physical play or exercise, such as a fitness club, bowling alley, billiards hall or pool hall, swimming pool or skating rink. An amusement arcade and a sports place of assembly is not a recreation use. (670) Recyclable Material means material that is separated into specific categories for purposes of reuse, recycling or composting. (675) Religious Education Use means the use of premises by a religious organization for religious education, other than: (A) a post-secondary school; or (B) a school regulated under the Education Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.E.2, as amended. (680) Religious Organization means a corporation or an association of persons that is charitable according to the law of Ontario, organized for the advancement of religion through the conduct of religious worship, services, ceremonies or rites, including its charitable purposes. (685) Religious Residence means premises owned or operated by, or on behalf of, a religious organization, consisting of dwelling units or rooms, used as accommodation for students or clerics, such as a monastery, nunnery or similar residence. (690) Renewable Energy means energy obtained from solar energy, wind energy, or geo-energy. (695) Residential Building includes the following types of buildings: (A) apartment building; (B) detached house; (C) detached houseplex; (D) semi-detached house; (E) semi-detached houseplex; or (F) townhouse. (700) Residential Care Home means supervised living accommodation that may include associated support services, and: (A) is licensed or funded under Province of Ontario or Government of Canada legislation; (B) is for persons requiring semi-independent or supervised group living arrangements; and (C) is for more than ten persons, exclusive of staff. (D) an apartment building used for the purpose of supportive housing or social housing is not a residential care home. (705) Resin, Natural or Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing means premises used for primary processing of synthetic resins, plastics materials and synthetic rubber from basic organic chemicals. (710) Respite Care Facility means premises used for the provision of short-term non-emergency services for the supervised care of people of any age, in order to provide relief to their caregivers. A respite care facility may include the provision of services, such as: (A) preventive medicine, (B) counselling, (C) social, recreational or educational programs, or (D) day or overnight care. (E) A day nursery is not a respite care facility. [ By-law: 451-2022 ] (715) Retail Service means premises in which photocopying, printing, postal, or courier services are sold or provided. (720) Retail Store means premises in which goods or commodities are sold, rented or leased. (725) Retirement Home means premises used for semi-independent living accommodation for senior citizens primarily in bed-sitting rooms, with common dining and lounge areas. A seniors community house is not a retirement home. (730) Salvage Yard means premises used as a scrap metal yard or a vehicle wrecking yard, and which may include storing, dismantling, crushing, or demolishing vehicles or heavy equipment or parts thereof. (735) Secondary Suite means self-contained living accommodation for an additional person or persons living together as a separate single housekeeping unit, in which both food preparation and sanitary facilities are provided for the exclusive use of the occupants of the suite, located in and subordinate to a dwelling unit. (740) Self-Storage Warehouse means premises where individual enclosed areas are made available to the public for keeping or storing goods or commodities. (745) Semi-Detached House means a building that has two dwelling units, and no dwelling unit is entirely or partially above another. (746) Semi-detached Houseplex means a portion of a building that has multiple dwelling units, and where: (A) the portion of the building has no more than four dwelling units; (B) the entire building is situated on two abutting lots; (C) the portion of the building is separated by party walls from any attached portions of the building on the abutting lot; and (D) at least one dwelling unit is entirely or partially above another. (E) Semi-detached houseplex includes the following types of building: a duplex, triplex or fourplex that complies with (A) to (D) above. (F) A detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse that has one or more secondary suites is not a semi-detached houseplex. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (750) Seniors Community House means premises operated by a non-profit organization providing living accommodation for up to ten senior citizens in bed-sitting rooms, if there is: (A) a maximum of two persons for each bed-sitting room, (B) accommodation for one staff person, (C) a common lounge and dining area, and (D) one or two kitchens shared by all residents. (755) Service Shop means premises used for servicing, repairing or refurbishing goods, other than vehicles. A personal service shop is not a service shop. (760) Shipping Terminal means premises used for transferring goods or commodities between vehicles or other transportation modes, and which may include facilities for maintenance, service and fuelling areas that are ancillary to the shipping terminal. A waste transfer station is not a shipping terminal. (763) Short-term Rental means all or part of a dwelling unit, that: (A) is used to provide sleeping accommodations for any rental period that is less than 28 consecutive days; and (B) is the principal residence of the short-term rental operator. [ By-law: 1453-2017 ] [ By-law: 1453-2017; 1092-2021 ] (765) Side Lot Line means any lot line other than a front lot line or a rear lot line. (770) Side Yard means the area on a lot that extends between the front yard and the rear yard of the lot, between the side lot lines and the building's side main walls respectively facing the side lot lines. (775) Side Yard Setback means a horizontal distance on a lot measured at a right angle from the side lot lines to the nearest main wall of a building or structure. (780) Soft Landscaping means landscaping excluding hard-surfaced areas such as decorative stonework, retaining walls, walkways, or other hard-surfaced landscape-architectural elements. (785) Software Development and Processing means premises used for software development and testing, or for the collection, analysis, processing, storage or distribution of electronic data. (790) Solar Energy means energy from the sun that is converted to produce electrical or thermal energy. (795) Sports Place of Assembly means premises used for spectator sporting events, such as a stadium or arena. (800) Stable means premises used for keeping, boarding, training or breeding horses, mules or other equine animals. (805) Stacked Bicycle Parking Space means a horizontal bicycle parking space that is positioned above or below another bicycle parking space and equipped with a mechanical device providing floor level access to both bicycle parking spaces. (810) Stacked Parking Space means a parking space that is positioned above or below another parking space and is accessed only by means of an elevating device. (815) Stacking Aisle means an on site queuing area for motor vehicles that is separated from other vehicle traffic and pedestrian circulation by barriers, markings or signs. [ By-law: 607-2015 ] (820) Storey means a level of a building, other than a basement, located between any floor and the floor, ceiling or roof immediately above it. (825) Street means a public right-of-way for general traffic circulation. (830) Street Yard means any front yard, rear yard or side yard abutting a street. (835) Structure means anything that is erected, built or constructed of one or more parts joined together. A vehicle is not a structure. (840) Student Residence means premises owned and operated by a public school, private school, post-secondary school or educational facility, consisting of dwelling units, bed-sitting rooms or rooms, used for student accommodation. (845) Take-out Eating Establishment means premises where food or beverages are prepared and offered for sale to patrons for consumption off the premises. (850) Tandem Parking Space means a parking space that is only accessed by passing through another parking space from a street, lane, drive aisle or driveway. (855) Through Lot means a lot, other than a corner lot, that abuts: (A) more than one street; or (B) one street in more than one location. (860) Tourist Home means a use that: (A) is in a dwelling unit which is the principal residence of the tourist home operator; (B) caters to the needs of the travelling public by the furnishing of sleeping accommodation; and (C) may include the provision of meals. (865) Townhouse means a building that has three or more dwelling units, and no dwelling unit is entirely or partially above another. A detached house or semi-detached house that has one or more secondary suites is not a townhouse. A detached houseplex or two semi-detached houseplexes is not a townhouse. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (870) Transportation Use means the use of premises or facilities for the operation of a mass transit system or a transportation system that is provided by, or on behalf of, the City of Toronto, Province of Ontario or Government of Canada, or is privately operated and Federally regulated. (875) Triplex means a building that has three dwelling units, with at least one dwelling unit entirely or partially above another. A detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse that has one or more secondary suites is not a triplex. A triplex may be a type of detached houseplex or semi-detached houseplex. [ By-law: 648-2025 ] (880) Vehicle means a wheeled or tracked device, either self-propelled or capable of being pulled by a self-propelled device, for moving persons or objects, or used for construction or agriculture. (885) Vehicle Dealership means premises used for the sale, rental or lease of vehicles displayed or stored on site, excluding construction or agricultural vehicles. (890) Vehicle Depot means premises used for the non-public storing of vehicles, excluding construction or agricultural vehicles. A vehicle depot may include dispatching, maintenance, service and fuelling areas for the stored vehicles that are ancillary to the vehicle depot. (895) Vehicle Fuel Station means premises where vehicle fuels are sold to the public. (900) Vehicle Repair Shop means premises used for vehicle service, repair or customizing, such as spray painting, repairing body or fender components. (910) Vehicle Service Shop means premises used for vehicle service or customizing, such as mechanical, electrical, glass or upholstery service or installation of parts or accessories, but excluding: (A) spray painting or repairing body or fender components; and (B) the service or customizing of construction or agriculture vehicles. (915) Vehicle Washing Establishment means premises used for washing or cleaning vehicles. (920) Veterinary Hospital means premises used by a licensed veterinarian for the medical treatment of animals. (925) Warehouse means premises used for keeping or storing goods or commodities, to which the general public does not have access, and which may also be used for the distribution of the goods or commodities. (930) Waste Incinerator means premises where waste material is reduced or destroyed by combustion through the application of heat. (935) Waste Transfer Station means premises used for receiving waste or recyclable material and transferring the material to vehicles for transport to another location. (937) Wellness Centre means premises providing services for therapeutic and wellness purposes. A massage therapy, medical office or body rub service is not a wellness centre. [ By-law: 0559-2014 (OMB PL130592) ] (940) Wholesaling Use means the use of premises for the sale of goods or commodities only to retailers or other businesses. (945) Wind Energy means energy from the wind that is converted to produce electrical energy. (955) Zoo means premises used for the care and exhibiting of animals and other living things for public viewing, and which may include breeding or research. &copy;City of Toronto 1998-2026